       Radio       ﬂux      in   GNOME             Radio        ﬁelds      (2020)


                      Ole   Kr.    Aamot,     University     of  Oslo
                                       July   6, 2020

    Electromagnetic     waves   are  disturbances    that provide    the  physical  basis  for
light, radio and   television  waves,  as  well as infrared,  ultraviolet   and  x ray waves
discovered   by  Marie   Curie.   Visible  light, audible   radio,  detectable   x  rays  and
other  types  of  electromagnetic     waves   diﬀer  only  in their  frequency    and   wave-
length.  Electromagnetic     waves    as visible light from   the  stars  of night has   trav-
elled without   diﬃculty   across   tens  or hundreds   of light-years    of (nearly)  empty
space  and  audible  radio  sound   waves  are  travelling from   stations  such  as WMBR
at M.I.T.   in Cambridge,     MA    in Boston    up  to distances   larger  than   ﬁve  thou-
sand  kilometers   between    Boston    and  Oslo  where   we   as listeners  on  computers
in Oslo  can  listen  to sound    waves   recorded   with  a microphone      on  a computer
in Boston    between   two  continents    in  the  world  due   to electromagnetic     waves
and  the  products   from  work    in electrical engineering.    Faraday’s    Law  is named
after the  English  scientist Michael    Faraday   (1791-1867)    who  ﬁrst  introduced    the
concept   of ﬁeld  lines. He  called   them  ”lines  of force”  (Young/Freedman        2016),
but the  term  ”ﬁeld   lines” is preferable.   An  electric ﬁeld  line is an  imaginary   line
or curve  domain    through   a region   of space  so that  its tangent   at any  point  is in
the direction   of the electrical-ﬁeld   vector  at that  point.  Electric   ﬁeld lines show
the direction   of the  ﬁeld  E   at each   point  and  each  electric  ﬁeld   has a  certain
electric charger   ﬂow,  a given   electric ﬂux.
    200  years  ago  Danish    scientist  Hans   Christian  Oersted    discovered    the ﬁrst
evidence   of the  relationship   of  magnetism    to moving    charges   as  he found   that
a compass    needle  was  deﬂected    by  a current-carrying    wire.   Ampère’s    Law,   the
relation  of magnetism    to moving    charges  discovered   by  André   Ampère,    inducing
the displacement    current  discovered    by James   Clerk  Maxwell,    shows  that  a time-
varying   electric ﬁeld  acts  as  a  source  of magnetic    ﬁelds,  and   is formulated    in
terms  of the line integral of the  magnetic   ﬁeld  Baround     a closed  path, denoted    by
Ampère’s    Law  for magnetic    ﬂux.   A  few years  later Michael    Faraday   in England
and  Joseph   Henry   in the  United    States  discovered   that  moving    a magnet    near
a conducting     loop  can  cause   a  current   in the  loop.    The   mutual   interaction
between   the  two  ﬁelds, electric  and  magnetic    ﬁelds, is summarized     in Maxwell’s
Equations.    Faraday’s   Law  tells  us a time-varying   magnetic    ﬁeld  acts as  a source
of electric  ﬁelds,  while  Ampère’s     Law   shows  that  a  time-varying     electric ﬁeld
acts as  a source  of magnetic    ﬁelds.
    On  June   12th   2020,  based   on  the  previous   work   towering    in electrical  en-
gineering   done   by  Miguel   de   Icaza,  Federico   Mena,    Linus   Torvalds,   Richard
M.  Stallman,    John  von  Neumann,      Alan   Turing,   James   Clerk   Maxwell,    André
Ampère,    Hans  Christian   Oersted   and  Michael   Faraday,   the  GNOME      Radio   Flux
was  discovered.


                                              1


   The  GNOME      Radio  Flux  can  be  seen and  heard  for a radio ﬁeld line visible
on the screen   of a GNU/Linux     computer    installed with  Debian   10, Fedora   32
or Ubuntu    20.04  LTS  operating   system   that  is running   the  gnome-internet-
radio-locator  software documented    in the Bachelor’s  thesis Public Internet  Radio
Client for  Accessing   Free  Audio   Maps   in Countries    with  Free  Speech   (Oslo
Metropolitan   University,  June  2020)  in Electrical Enginering.
   The  full paper,  Bachelor’s  thesis report, essay, conference  talks and  software
downloads   and  updates  for Debian  GNU/Linux     10, Fedora   32 and Ubuntu    20.04
are published  on  the GNOME      Radio  Project’s  website  at www.gnomeradio.org
and this author’s  homepage    at folk.uio.no/olekaa/































                                           2


