From: Ole Aamot <ole@gnome.org>
Date: Fri, Sep 30, 2022 at 7:27 PM
Subject: Fwd: GNOME Radio - www.gnomeradio.org - legal advice under F.C.C. licensing

My reply to Eben Moglen, Professor at Columbia Law University and Software Freedom Law Center.

Best,
Ole Aamot

---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Ole Aamot <ole@gnome.org>
Date: Tue, Jul 27, 2021 at 4:04 PM
Subject: Re: GNOME Radio - www.gnomeradio.org - legal advice under F.C.C. licensing
To: Eben Moglen <eben@softwarefreedom.org>
Cc: <mishi@softwarefreedom.org>, Ole Aamot <ole@gnome.org>


On Tue, Jul 27, 2021, 2:38 PM Eben Moglen <eben@softwarefreedom.org> wrote:

    Hello Ole,


Hello again Professor Moglen,

    GNOME Radio is not subject to FCC licensing in any respect.  You are
    not engaged in broadcasting, or communications by radio at all.  Your
    activity is analogous to that of a browser, not that of a radio
    station, and FCC has no more interest in your software than they do in
    that published by Mozilla, Brave, or (for that matter) the Linux
    kernel itself.


Good to know.

    FCC is also not statutorily empowered to regulate software for general
    purpose computers, standing alone, in any context, as we have
    previously pointed out to the agency with respect to free software
    other or related contexts, involving GNU Radio, which was closer to
    FCC jurisdiction in its functionality than you are.  You need not be
    concerned to take any measures to avoid regulations they cannot
    impose.


OK, GNOME Radio 3.0 is described shortly in my Bachelor thesis "Public Internet Radio Client for Accessing Free Audio Maps in Countries with Free Speech" (2020/06/24) http://www.gnomeradio.org/~ole/thesis.pdf

I didn't write much about the F.C.C., except a statement from a book on broadcast media:

"In November 1934 Federal Communications Commission (FCC) replaced
Federal Radio Commission. It is authorized to control all foreign and interstate
radio, telegraph, and cable communications."

    With respect to claims for royalties from music publishers or
    collecting societies, licensing with respect to streaming (by those
    also broadcasting or streaming as a service that replaces radio
    broadcasting) is the responsibility of streamers, not listeners.
    Disputes about the payments owed under compulsory licenses to
    streaming operators will continue periodically in the future, as those
    concerning broadcast rights do, but you are not a party to those
    issues.


Thank you, this really resolved my concerns.

    Does GNOME Radio offer any stream-ripping features?  Those we might
    want to discuss in more detail, if so.


No, GNOME Radio doesn't offer stream-ripping features.

I write GNOME Gingerblue (see http://www.gingerblue.org/), a separate program that is capable of entering XML  metadata about musicians and immediately recording from the microphone, but it is not capable of ripping high-quality streams or annotating meta info about recorded music like the proprietary software "Shazam" yet.

    We are available to offer legal services pro bono publico if you are
    contacted by US regulators or copyright holders.  Forwarding such
    email to us is all you need to do.  Because you have no immediate need
    for legal services I won't bother you with a formal retainer, but if
    for any reason you would like to formalize our role as your lawyer for
    these and related issues, please do let me know and I'll send you a
    retainer agreement to review.

    Best regards,
    Eben


Thank you very much, Professor Moglen!

Best,
Ole Aamot

    On Wednesday, 21 July 2021, Ole Aamot wrote:

      To Software Freedom Law Center,

      I represent myself as a maintainer of gnome-internet-radio-locator in
      the GNOME Foundation project www.gnome.org and as a project leader of
      the GNOME Radio project www.gnomeradio.org.

      The projects provide client access to immediate audio streaming from
      various Internet radio stations from C-SPAN, NPR and BBC licensed to
      broadcast freely by the FCC in the United States of America.

      I would like some free legal advice on how you think that the project
      can protect itself from future legal challenges from the RIAA and the
      FCC in the United States.  We comply to music licensing with the file

      * gnome-internet-radio-locator-12.0.0/BROADCASTING

        You don't need a license to listen to Internet radio, but if you run
        a radio station and broadcast music to the general public, you need
        a broadcast license permit from the F.C.C. if you are in the U.S. to
        legally broadcast (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broadcast_license
        and https://www.dnalounge.com/backstage/webcasting.html).

        See http://www.icecast.org/ for a free streaming server by Xiph.org.

        The radio stations in GNOME Internet Radio Locator are non-profit
        stations serving the public interest.

        The power of the Federal Communications Commission (F.C.C.) reside in
        its authority of granting broadcast licenses to local radio stations,
        according to page 812 in The New York Times Guide to Essential
        Knowledge (ISBN 0-312-37659-6):

        Rather than support a highly centralized form of broadcasting like
        the national public service networks being established in European
        countries, American communications policy celebrated the fundamental
        principle of "localism," convinced that American democracy would be
        served best by independent local stations operating without
        excessive government supervision.  The agency's power of enforcement
        came from its ability to revoke, or refuse to renew, the license of
        a local station -- something that has happened rarely.

        With GNOME Internet Radio Locator, you can listen for free to live
        broadcasts by radio stations from all around the world, including the
        U.S. stations as long as the U.S. radio stations aren't revoked by   
        the F.C.C. for failing to pay the royalty fees for the music that the
        radio stations broadcast on the Internet to the royalty fee  
        collection agencies such as The American Society of Composers,
        Authors and Publishers (ASCAP), Broadcast Music, Inc. (BMI), and  
        Society of European Stage Authors and Composers (SESAC).

        Enjoy Free Internet radio,
        Ole Aamot, February 13th 2019

      We are not relaying broadcasts.

      The GNOME Foundation is based in USA and GNOME Radio is based here in
      Oslo, Norway.

      Hope this helps.

      Best,
      Ole Aamot
